
=head1 NAME

DJabberd::Config - Configuration options in djabberd.conf

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The following describes the format and allowed options of
F<djabberd.conf>.  F<djabberd.conf> is formatted similarly to Apache
configuration files; that is:

   # Lines beginning with '#' are comments
   SomeGlobalOption on
   
   <VHost vhost.example.com>
      # Options herein apply only to this vhost
   </VHost>

Configuration directives are not case sensitive.  Directives which
take a "boolean" value can be passed any commonly-understood
expression of a boolean; C<1>, C<y>, C<yes>, C<true>, C<t>, C<on>,
C<enable>, or C<enabled> for truth, or C<0>, C<n>, C<no>, C<false>,
C<f>, C<off>, C<disable>, or C<disabled> for false.

=head1 GLOBAL CONFIGURATION

=head2 DeclareMonitor C<IP address>

Declares that a given IP address is used only for checking
connectivity to the server, and should not be logged or assigned an
internal ID.  Useful if you have a C<nagios> host.

=head2 SSLCertificateKeyFile C</path/to/key.pem>

Sets the path to the private key file for the server.  This key should
be in PEM format and only readable by the server, and is used to
encrypt traffic to clients to ask for TLS.  If it is not set, the
server will not support TLS.

=head2 SSLCertificateFile C</path/to/cert.pem>

Sets the path to the certificate file for the server.  This
certificate should be in PEM format, and will be presented to the
clients who ask for TLS.  If it is not set, the server will not
support TLS.

=head2 OldSSL C<boolean>

Defaults to off; if set, the server will also listen on port 5223, and
immediately attempt TLS negotiation on all opened connections.  As the
name implies, this is deprecated, and C<StartTLS> stanzas are now the
preferred method to enable TLS communication with clients.

=head2 UnixDomainSocket C</path/to/socket>

Defaults to unset; if set, specifies the absolute path to a UNIX
domain socket to listen on, in addition to any TCP ports (set by
L</ClientPort> and L</ServerPort>).

=head2 ClientPort C<port>

Sets the port to listen for client-to-server connections on; defaults
to 5222.  May also specify an IP address to bind to, in addition to a
port, such as C<127.0.0.1:5222>.

=head2 ServerPort C<port>

Sets the port to listen for server-to-server connection on; defaults
to 5269.  If explicitly set to 0, disables server-to-server listening
for all virtual hosts.  May also specify an IP address to bind to, in
addition to a port, such as C<127.0.0.1:5222>.

=head2 AdminPort C<port>

Sets the port to listen for administrative connections on; defaults to
off.  For security reasons, you will most certainly want to bind this
to a specific IP address, to prevent access by unauthorized users.
See L<DJabberd::Connection::Admin>.

=head2 IntraDomainListen C<port>

Sets the port to listen for inter-cluster messages; defaults to off.
Clustering support is still in development.

=head2 PidFile C</path/to/pidfile>

If set, writes the server's PID to the given file.

=head2 CaseSensitive C<boolean>

If set to a true value, Jabber IDs will be treated as entirely
case-sensitive; defaults to off.  This setting exists purely for
backwards compatibility, as previous versions incorrectly treated
Jabber IDs as case-sensitive.

=head2 ShareParsers C<boolean>

Defaults to on; controls whether L<DJabberd::XMLParser> objects are
held onto between stanzas.



=head1 VIRTUAL HOST CONFIGURATION

Each virtual host is configured with a block which declares the name
of the virtual host:

    <VHost jabber.example.com>
      # Configuration for jabber.example.com
    </VHost>

Virtual hosts can effectively be nested, using the Subdomain block:

    <VHost jabber.example.com>
      # Configuration for jabber.example.com
      <Subdomain muc>
        # Configuration for muc.jabber.example.com
      </Subdomain>
    </VHost>

=head2 QuirksMode C<boolean>

Enables or disables "quirks mode"; defaults to on.  See
F<doc/quirks-mode.txt> for a list of workaround this enables.

=head2 S2S C<boolean>

Enables or disables server-to-server communication, or "federation."
Defaults to off; note that C</ServerPort> being set to 0 will override
this configuration.

=head2 InBandReg C<boolean>

If set, enables in-band registration of new users; defaults to off.

=head2 ChildService C<JID> C<description>

Adds a mapping between a JID on this server, and the given
description; this is used for client service auto-discovery.

=head2 RequireSSL C<boolean>

If set, requires that clients have negotiated a TLS before
authentication information is sent.



=head1 PLUGIN CONFIGURATION

Plugins can only be configured on a per virtual host basis.  Each
plugin defines its own configuration parameters.  Plugins bundled with
the base DJabberd server include:

=over

=item L<DJabberd::Delivery::ComponentConnection>

Delivery through a JEP-0114 component connection.

=item L<DJabberd::Delivery::Local>

Delivery to local users; implicitly added by default.

=item L<DJabberd::Delivery::S2S>

Delivery via server-to-server connection; implicitly added if L</S2S>
is enabled.

=item L<DJabberd::Delivery::LocalVHosts>

Delivery to locally configured virtual hosts; implicitly added between
a virtual host and all of its configured subdomains.

=item L<DJabberd::RosterStorage::InMemoryOnly>

Store rosters in memory only.  See L<DJabberd::RosterStorage::SQLite>
for a common, more persistent, alternative.

=item L<DJabberd::Authen::AllowedUsers>

Only allow the given users to connect.

=item L<DJabberd::Authen::StaticPassword>

Set a static password for all users.

=item L<DJabberd::Authen::InMemoryOnly>

Store users' correct passwords (set on in-band registration, for
instance) in memory only.

=item L<DJabberd::Bot::Admin>

Provides an alternative interface to L<DJabberd::Connection::Admin>
for certain users.

=item L<DJabberd::SASL> and subclasses

Enables a particular type of SASL negotiation.

=back

=cut

